Palchech.
Fore
helping people in the broadly speaking
defense tech or let America wins or
things that are good uh broadly defined.
Um, and then we also align on something
we could talk about later on like the
importance of not putting our youth in
straight jackets because they're
divergent neurologically, which is a
passion of of mine and should be a
passion of everyone's since you could
define our wonderful and great country
as a country where everyone who was
divergent in ideology, thought, religion
or quite frankly like uh uh
neurologically came to this country to
have a better place where they could
express their freedom and had the right
to a express what they thought which and
there's a deep link between expressing
what you think publicly and privately
first and fourth amendment and being
able to think it and if that doesn't
work being able to defend it with the
second amendment uh and uh the and last
not least our our founders founders uh
uh did not structure these rights the
way they are in say where I lived for a
a lot of my life in Germany is rights
granted to us by other bureaucrats. We
they're given to us. They're inalienable
from a higher being.
>> Uh and uh I would just say before I get
into uh how the world's changed, we have
American uh war fighters on the
battlefield. Uh s willing to sacrifice
their lives. Uh some of whom have
sacrificed their lives. They have
families and kids and families don't
know if their loved ones are coming
home. And uh you know we uh I know in
this room but we should publicly
privately support them and people who
are not aware or somehow so effing
spoiled that they don't realize what
these people do for us we should
publicly humiliate them. Uh and everyone
has a role in that. uh um and especially
those of us who are riding a crest of of
of
intergenerational cultural intellectual
courage advantage which it which it is
to be an American nowadays. uh should
not obviously should not forget uh the
war fighter who are disproportionately
uh from uh the middle of our our country
and disproportionately have gotten
screwed
uh and uh and I'm proud uh very proud
that at Palunteer
uh you know we we get arrows and people
I mean half the people attacking us it'd
be good if they spent two minutes on
Wikipedia at least learning the talking
points they're regurgitating
But uh but um you know there's some
legitimate criticisms uh of any company
but
at the end of the day the fact is the
most important thing Palanteer is doing
and I other people in this room are
doing and people like you and other
people adjacent or ancillary to building
uh uh more lethal and deadly weapons is
to make sure that American
war fighters uh are much more likely to
come home and quite frankly the people
who are trying to harm them uh know that
they won't be coming home
>> and that's the way you stop people from
attacking us in my opinion and then on
the the kind of um the leading up to
what's going on but I think that there
are probably people in this room who are
wildly supportive uh and there are
people who aren't. It is hard to deny
that America is exerting a deterrent
capability that was eviscerated.
You you can like or not like that's
different than ignoring we now have a
deterrent capability that no other
country appears to have. And that is for
for lots of reasons. And obviously
uh the war fighter, the people organized
the war fighter, the generals, the
leadership, the president,
but one advantage that often gets
overlooked in it for reasons that make
no sense is war fighting is technology.
You know, I I spent half my life in in
in Germany for familiar reasons and then
I wrote my PhD. it that and then the
rise of America after World War II, the
reason America was able to win World War
II were technological advantages. And if
you look what happened in, you know,
Operation Midnight Hammer, what happened
in Venezuela, what's so far happening uh
uh in in in Iran, you see one society
just totally dominating. That's our
society. Now, you could get into I I
would exp I I I'm in always in fights
with my intellectual friends about
they're they're like, "But wouldn't it
be better to have a rule a a law-based
system where everyone is equal?" Yeah,
sure. In theory, but in this world, it's
us or China or Russia.
>> Yeah. And I don't know how you guys feel
about those decisions, but I think we're
doing I literally believe we're doing
the work of higher a higher purpose by
making sure and not just for America,
but for the whole world that we are the
power that actually has the decisive
vote. And there is only one way to do
that and that is with military
superiority. And when I say military
superiority, I don't mean that we're
arguing on a PowerPoint. It means but
America. So now you get to what is
technology done? Now again I think
whenever people like me are talking
about this it you can't say enough that
it's the war fighter and their courage
and I'm not doing that. I'm sitting here
um and you know and I'm not and we have
Palunteerians all over on like I'm
talking to them constantly. So they're
doing they're putting themselves in
harm's way and you know um uh I'm I am
kind of but not directly. It's mostly
all the people who yell at me and I
guess maybe there are some people want
to shoot at me but um it the the the if
you look at the rise of like in the in
the lifetime of Palunteer there's been
the rise of software which essentially
me meant your you know software company
that is supplying a steak dinner that's
obviously parasitic is not cutting it
that kind of those those companies are
being eviscerated
you the rise of defense tech and now you
have a hybrid software, hardware, AI
where you really need all three. Um,
interestingly from an investment
perspective, um, you know, I would say
the last company standing before we all
have to salute the overlord of the LLM
will be Palanteer. But it's mainly
>> we're going to get into that, I promise.
mainly because um you there it's it's
the specificity of and the security and
the orchestration
but none of that has to make any sense
to anyone in this room. I'll tell you
what it makes a lot of sense to our
adversaries right now. How is America
doing this? Now again it's specialized
ways. It's 25 30 years of experience in
fighting its meritocracy. The department
of war is the most meritocratic
environment. It integrated in Korea
before our society did. Uh it's it it is
the most popular institution
and most revered institution and
probably the only institution in America
that is actually revered by the American
people across every demographic. And
it's revered by the American people
across every demographic precisely
because it's been meritocratic. If you
were a black American, uh you got your
break in America by going to the
military. if you wanted to be treated
fairly uh and you were from a group that
you felt that every demographic has
somebody who is in the military whose
life was changed and it did something
noble and wonderful for America. They
also have the experience of coming home
in America not sticking up for them. We
should change that. Now you get to
Silicon Valley. Uh my one message for
and again I I don't I'm without getting
in specific people or because I'm like
if Silicon Valley believes we are going
to take away everyone's white collar job
meaning primarily democratic shaped uh
people whom I grew up with highly
educated people who went to elite
schools or went to schools that are
almost elite who vote for one party and
you're going going to screw the
military. If you don't think that's
going to lead to nationalization of our
technology, you're And you
might be particularly because
you have a 160 IQ, but it you this is
where that path is going.
>> Like you cannot have technologies that
simultaneously take away everyone's job
and then be perceived. Again, there's a
lot of subtlety here behind behind the
curtain. I've been heavily involved in
that subtlety. what can be where it can
be deployed what can be deployed there's
a difference between US military and
surveillance and despite what everyone
thinks Palanteer is the
anti-surveillance company I know your
person online thinks that's not true but
every technical expert does so I end up
in every conversation that I don't want
to be in but the the danger for our
industry is that America you get a you
get a famous horseshoe effect where
there's only one thing people agree on
and that's that this is not paying the
bills and people and our industry should
be nationalized and and so the the the
societal benefit that is going on in
Iran besides the fact that I think I
suspect the Iranian people feel like
finally someone's on my side and it
wasn't the Berkeley faculty that was
supposed to like me. Uh it it's uh um a
big lesson for you. Yeah. So um and but
then as America we and a people who are
prominent in the tech industry, you
know, we have to find a way to make sure
that we're not just popular in PaloAlto.
>> Yeah. I I want to get back to something
you just said, which is that, you know,
it's it's either us winning or China
winning or Russia winning or another
country that it's a zero- sum game. And
it feels like the people in this room in
Washington really understand that AI is
zero sum, but that Silicon Valley
doesn't. Silicon Valley doesn't like to
think in terms of zero sum. They like to
think that everything is a positive sum
game. So, how would you explain to the
people in Silicon Valley who are again
building the LLMs, you know, building um
what what they would say is a brand new
net new technology that hasn't existed
before and therefore it needs to be
treated differently. What would you say
to them about this?
>> Well, I mean, there's first of all, it's
it's um by the way, I just want to push
back slightly. They do think it's zero
sum. They think it's zero sum versus
each other.
>> Mhm.
>> So like they absolutely are fighting.
There will be like you know it's my own
rhetoric but I happen to think it's
true. It's going to be chips ontology
and I suspect in the end one one and a
half provider. So they pretend they
don't think it's zero sum but then ask
them how they feel about their
competitor. So it's very very I mean
these people are fighting very very hard
for the dominant position. So like what
they don't understand is in the world
it's zero sum. But I I actually think
the primary issue in the valley is it's
going to be zero sum visav
when America decides that look okay I
have I I interact with a lot of
political figures I have a lot of
respect I think and some are when
politicians figure out this is the one
winning issue it is going to be zero sum
it's going to be your money and your
company being zero sum nationalized so
that's the part they don't understand fe
helping people understand that, you
know, either we set the rules or de
facto. Like I'm I'm much more I'm much
more on America should be strong so that
we don't have to worry about the enemies
than our enemies are evil kind of thing.
So I'm not super neocon. It seems to be
very hard in this culture as someone
who's lived abroad a lot of my life.
It's very hard in this culture to
explain to people that we're in a
competitive environment because things
here are so good. They don't understand
how different it will be and how much we
will change and how much the pressure
will be on America, not just legally,
but militarily and culturally if we fall
behind. And I I I one of the things that
again it's so I I personally think the
better way to get people to change is to
okay it go bring people like that to
Iowa. Bring them to DC and explain to
our American political leadership why
you make $100 million and why a soldier
from Iowa can't explain to his wife he
has the best technology and then go
across the hall. So let's classically
Republican shape. then go across the
hall and talk to progressive Democrats
about how everyone in their constituency
is not going to have a job and then
leave and imagine what's going to happen
to you. You know the funny thing about
those of us who've spent most of our
life abroad like in Germany which a
phenomenal culture we have a much better
sense of how fragile this exper
experiment is America it could go wrong
>> and it will go wrong if if all wealth is
going to a small number of people and
those people do not appear to be on side
now that perception might is obviously a
caricature. It is a caricature in the
sense this is new technology and you're
not going to be able to use the same
kind of framework and you're going to
need people who appreciate how it's
different and there are real questions
about fourth amendment protections like
our right to privacy. What is privacy in
a world where you could imputee what
someone's doing at home through
technology? H how do you protect our
right to have our own thoughts, live
longer, uh have a higher economic status
potentially certainly if you're a
vocational worker. But so those issues
have to be unpacked. And where Silicon
Valley is right is you you're going to
need a forum to talk about that that
doesn't pretend, you know, large
language models is the same thing as
machine learning is the same thing as
software is the same thing as a bullet.
They're they're not.
>> Yeah. Um uh but um but but but but de
facto I I very much believe uh as a
critique of the uh like economic elite
especially in in the technical area
there's there's like to use an econom a
kind of overly economic uh a
philosophical term they reify meaning
they turn it into a thing our rights but
those rights you know when I was in
Germany I I was there and there were I
spent a lot of time I did a PhD uh but I
you know there were a lot of older
Germans and I I would spend time with
them in the countryside in the city of
course they they didn't know anybody who
was a Nazi in the countryside they're
like we were all Nazis so I would ask
them but one of the more fascinating
conversations is why they became
Democrats or not like left right but
capital D and it was always because it
worked and then the unwinding of it that
we don't ask if it unwinds
you know, our it will we will not be
protected
>> and it it's just the dialogue we have
currently is not acknowledging what's
going to happen politically, what is
happening politically. The the wealth
tax is a derivative of this because
everyone knows the wealth tax isn't
going to help the poor. It's just going
to the rich
>> and that's enough to get it done. Mhm.
>> And if if that's happening, just imagine
what's going to happen when it's like
there's going to be 50 unlikable people
with all the money.
>> Anybody here like that? And you guys are
doing well.
>> No. No. I I I want to get back to to
kind of the conversation about how um
how we ensure that the Department of War
continues to lead on AI because I think
this has been top of mind for everyone
in the room for the last 48 hours.
um our adversaries are looking at you
know contracting wars um that are
playing out in press releases you know
what is your view on how we can ensure
that we win this AI race against the PRC
if you if you're giving advice to all
the founders and CEOs of of you know the
the the
>> well the first thing part of what I'm
doing and part of the reason I mean
besides your charm and importance part
of the reason I want to be here is uh I
want
my reputation in the val every you
always have reputations my reputation
which the rep I'm not even saying the
reputation is true. But in my case, like
I'm viewed as the batshit crazy guy who
is often telling you something you don't
want to hear and you may not like but is
probably right.
And
>> that's true.
>> So yeah, and that's why I want you to
send this first step. We have to they're
not understanding the stakes and what I
nothing's going to happen till people
understand the stakes. This will affect
you. Now then the question is like what
Hollywood did is Hollywood got together
the whole rating system was Hollywood
realized if we don't do rating ratings
Washington's going to and Washington is
going to butcher it
>> and let's even say Washington
it but like it it doesn't understand the
metier
>> so the first step is everybody and I'm
already on the phone with people saying
okay great I understand your issue but
you realize
the wolves are at the gate and they
already have tasted blood.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh the second step is we have to find
ways where we get together and say okay
like if you just want to go through the
issues yes there are you know using
technologies in the context of
eviscerating
of fourth amendment rights in America is
a is something left and right in this
country actually don't want. It's a
character. There are people on the
honestly I'm in private rooms. There are
people on the left who don't care about
these issues who pretend to do it in p
do in public but there are people and
there are people on the right who
pretend not to care who do care. Both
parties have significant coalitions and
the American people cares care and it's
in our constitution. But then you have
to get be very granular about what's
going to happen on the battlefield
because they're the the two issues
Americans care about are their
prosperity and their safety. Mhm.
>> So if the if if the two things that
Silicon Valley has to figure out is is
what are we going to how are we going to
ethically talk about what's going to
happen to our economy? In my view, you
have you could create a lot of
prosperity with trade shaped people.
>> Uh okay, but what is going to happen to
the white collar workers and what are we
going to do that? That's one issue. And
then we we're not going to agree, but we
have to have something like a we're
going to do these initiatives just like
Hollywood did. And then you're going to
have to have a discussion on the
battlefield where you know the
rebuttable presumption meaning it
doesn't happen is that the we are going
to do the maximal amount to make sure
our war fighters come home safely. And
if you are sitting in Silicon Valley
making an argument that somehow would
eviscerate that or conversely you're not
able to understand what Silicon Valley
is saying. Meaning there's going to have
to be a medium without going into
details on all these breakdowns cuz I
was in the middle of it and I want to
stay in the middle of it. There there
are substantive issues and there are
cultural issues.
>> If we could get rid of the cultural
misunderstanding, we could get pretty
close to agreements here. Yeah. But you
you're dealing with worlds that never
ever ever talk. Yes.
>> And don't have an ability to talk to
each other.
>> Yeah. Well, and you've been building a
bridge between these cultures for 20
years. I mean, that's what's so
interesting. I mean, that's in some
for
Fore!
Open.chech.
I need
Fore! Foreign! Foreign!
Fore!
Foreign! Foreign!
Fore
speech.
Cloud
Fore!
Foreign! Foreign!
Forech.